hello everyone its Alena and I'm back
for another video and today we're going
to talk about waking up early because I
usually wake up at 5 a.m. and since I
posted my morning routine quite a few
people asked about how I actually
managed to become an early riser and
truth be told I wasn't always an early
riser I was actually the person who
would like you know hit that snooze
button five times and just like sleep
until I could last minute that I could
possibly stay in bed but I really
changed since my middle school days and
here's how I did it so the thing about
waking up early is that you just need to
go to bed earlier and I know that kind
of makes sense but a lot of us struggle
with getting into bed earlier and I did
too because I couldn't really fall
asleep even if I went to bed early so I
tried a lot of different things and I
would highly recommend listening to
music I really loved the sleep playlist
on Spotify but after a while it just
stopped working for me and then I
transitioned to the calm sleeping
stories up and I really really loved
that up I always fall asleep their
stories are about 30 to 40 minutes long
and you will definitely be asleep by the
end of it you can try it for a week for
free and then you have to pay for it but
I think it's absolutely worth the
investment because it allows you to
schedule in your sleep because you know
that you will definitely be asleep
within 30 minutes so you can count how
many hours of sleep you're gonna have
until you're gonna have to wake up again
so that's why I really really love this
app this is not sponsored in any way I
just really genuinely loved them and
would highly recommend them to anybody
who's struggling to fall asleep next
when you're training yourself to wake up
early don't wake up early from the start
on was just you know transition 30
minutes earlier everyday because your
body can adjust it out easily but if you
you know normally wake up at 9 and then
suddenly you wake up at 5:00 every day
your body is not going to be in that
routine for it just yet and it's just
going to be harder for you to transition
so instead go my 30 minute intervals day
by day until you've arrived at the time
that you want to get up and then when
you've actually managed to get up early
don't know and I know in the first few
weeks that's going to be hard because
you are going to be tired because your
body is not used to it but if you start
napping and you do that regularly your
body gets used to it and so you're just
gonna you know keep taking these naps
and then you're not going to have to
productive time throughout the day but
you wake up for a productive time so
don't allow yourself to nap you're gonna
hate yourself for it in the first one or
two weeks but then
you're gonna thank yourself my next rule
for consistently working a birdie is
something that I'm not sure of it
applies to everybody but for me
personally I have this rule that I don't
drink caffeine after 4 p.m. because I'm
somebody who reacts very very strongly
to it and it does make me more
productive but it also makes me very
nervous and it just doesn't know how
much you fall asleep which I guess is
kind of the point of it but for me I
know if I drink it I really can't fall
asleep and if you know that you are
somebody like that I would highly
recommend avoiding caffeine in the
afternoon so that you can actually fall
asleep and then get up early again and
everything is really important when
you're training yourself to wake up
early every day is to be consistent with
it so you have to do that every day no
exceptions no you know changing your
schedule every day because your body
won't be able to adjust to it if you
really want to do this then you have to
be consistent of course you can go out
every once in a while and just sleep in
its absolutely normal and it won't mess
up your routine but if you do that say
like three times a week you just don't
have an alarm when you sleep until 11:00
and then on the other days you try to
get up at five your body will be really
really confused so don't do that to it
because it's just not gonna make you be
well-rested
so instead go with consistency I know it
can sometimes suck but it's also pretty
cool actually if you get like all of
your tasks out of the way when you get
up early on the weekend as well for
example I know for me that's something
that's really useful in university so
you know be consistent and you can
actually stay in early riser and so it
doesn't just become a fluke where you
woke up early for one week and it was
just hard for you to get out of bed in
the morning put you along on the other
side of the room so that you have to get
out of bed in order to turn it off and
also really really importantly turn off
that snooze button you don't need it
because it's just a temptation for you
but the good thing is when you have your
alarm in the other side of the room
you've already gotten out of bed and
there's really no point in getting back
into it but if that's still not the
terrans enough for you immediately do
your bed so that you are really not
tempted to lay back into it and just
fall asleep again another thing that
really helped me is to write down a
routine of what I do in the morning and
at that very early on when I wasn't
fully used to you know waking up early
everyday yet so I just wrote down okay
first you go to the bathroom you wash
your face you can YouTube then you come
back here and then you
you get dressed you do your bed whatever
you can just write that down like the
little step tutorial for your morning
self that doesn't really know what to do
with itself and it does help because it
gives you something to do it gives you a
purpose in getting up and something that
I found really really helpful was to
write down three things the evening
before that I want to get done in the
morning so those are usually things like
I don't know homework for a specific
subject or writing an essay
stuff like that because then you have a
good reason to get out of bed and you
already know what you're gonna do yeah
this is my strategy for learning how to
wake up early I have used a strategy
quite a few times because you know
sometimes over summer break get out of
the habit of waking up early and then
you have to teach yourself again that is
a good thing well that's how I do it and
if you guys want to see my morning
routine video it's linked in the infobox
below and you can also find it in the
endcard which will show up in a moment
thank you guys so much for watching this
video have a nice day bye